docs: add rateProvider specifics (#1)
mkflow27/docs: docs/reference/contracts/rate-providers.md

#### [`ChainlinkRateProvider`](https://github.com/balancer/metastable-rate-providers/blob/master/contracts/ChainlinkRateProvider.sol)

If you're running on a network for which Chainlink doesn't have a registry and you think the risk of a deprecated price feed is low enough, then you can use the rateProvider that directly queries a given Chainlink oracle.

## RateProviders as part of a pool's lifecycle

> Different pool types utilise rate Providers in varying contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the pool type, Rate Providers are utilized in different contexts.
```

| PoolType                | Yield Fee        |  Pricing Equations| 
| -----------             | -----------      |  -----------      |
| Composable Stable Pool  | ✅               | ✅                |
| Meta Stable (EOL)       | ✅               | ✅                |
| Weighted Pool           | ✅               | ❌                |
| Managed Pool            | ✅               | ❌                |

> One important aspect to determine a trade's outcome are the Token balances a pool contains. Before the reported balances by the Vault are being used in the Trade equations for StableMath two operations will be done to them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stable Pools require the reported token balances from , `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`, be manipulated in two distinct manners before prices can be calculated using StableMath:
```

> - 1. Upscaling to Balancer's internal 18 decimals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Scale token balances to an 18-decimal fixed point number.
```

> - 2. Applying the rate via multiplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Multiply the scaled balance by the rate.
```

> These operations supply apparent balances to the StableMath equations effectively changing the value of the balances reported via the earlier call to `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This sentence isn't necessary because it just repeats what is already said above.

> ComposableStablePools & MetaStablePools have different implementations for the above operations but the outcome is the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ComposableStablePools and MetaStablePools have different implementations for calculating price but the outcome is the same.
```

> ### Implementation for Composable Stable Pool 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Composable Stable Pool Implementation
```

> The scaling factor that is used can be seen in the below code snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this can be removed as the code snippet is self explanatory

```
function _scalingFactors() internal view virtual override returns (uint256[] memory) {
        // There is no need to check the arrays length since both are based on `_getTotalTokens`
        uint256 totalTokens = _getTotalTokens();
        uint256[] memory scalingFactors = new uint256[](totalTokens);

        for (uint256 i = 0; i < totalTokens; ++i) {
            scalingFactors[i] = _getScalingFactor(i).mulDown(_getTokenRate(i));
        }

        return scalingFactors;
    }
```

> ### Example for a Composable Stable Pool swap utilising rate providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example Composable Stable Pool Swap
```

I think we should utilize shorter titles to make navigating via the side menus cleaner. Since this page is all about rate providers we do not need to mention that in the examples title.

| wstEth - 0x7f39c581f595b53c5cb19bd0b3f8da6c935e2ca0    | 6998331684674570187580                | 1123265399574462175  |  7860983836140600107855                   | 
| sfrxEth - 0xac3e018457b222d93114458476f3e3416abbe38f   | 7388958961745977404526                | 1038371994655823641  |  7672488055538194248508                   | 
| rEth - 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393      | 5950507951882438548950                | 1069881935087994199  |  6366340962316480428138                   | 

** Bear in mind that the tokens used for demonstration in this doc all have 18 decimals and Balancer natively uses 18 decimals. If tokens have different decimals, the scaled balances scale with the tokens decimals as well.

After the token balances have been upscaled, they are fed into `_calcOutGivenIn`[here](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x72d756d0fcd663343ca1b2adcfc7e114e8598bc0be28386752f16222384a29b3?trace=0.4.2.2.19.11.0.3.0.5).
That is how RateProviders feed into the pricing equation for ComposableStablePool and for MetaStablePool

> ### Implementation in a MetaStablePool 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Meta Stable Pool Implementation
```

> The scaling factor that is used can be seen in the below code snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this can be removed as the code snippet is self explanatory

20040415915824227571764 for rETH and 21953505292747563228232 for Weth. 
  
| Token                                             | balances                              |  rate                |  scaled balance                           | 
| -----------                                       | -----------                           |  -----------         |  -----------                              | 
| reth 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393   | 6998331684674570187580                | 1070121751154609309  |  21445684973708525874136                  | 
| Weth 0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2   | 7388958961745977404526                | 1000000000000000000  |  21953505292747563228232                  | 

The token balances used in the Trade Equations are then [upscaled](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21?trace=0.5.2.1.5.11) the scaled balance. Only after upscaling are the apparent balances supplied to
[`OnSwapGivenIn()`](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21?trace=0.5.2.1.5.13.2). 

> ### RateProvider being used in a MetaStablePool swap

Reviewer: Are you working on this section? It seems like it was covered already in the sections above. Right?

Author: I have removed this as it was a duplicate.

> ## RateProviders being used to collect yieldFees for WeightedPools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Yield Fees for Weighted Pools
```
Im leaning towards this title being a header three to match the other two pool types

> Rate providers play a crucial role in determining whether yield fees are charged during pool join or exit. The primary factor used for this determination is the comparison of the `_athRateProduct` private variable with a dynamically calculated `rateProduct` on every pool join or exit. Here's an example illustrating what the `rateProduct` represents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rate providers play a crucial role in determining whether yield fees are charged during pool joins and exits. The pool's `_athRateProduct` and it dynamically calculated `rateProduct` are key factors that determine this.
```

> The rateProduct is calculated as the weighted product of all current rates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`rateProduct` is calculated as the weighted product of all current rates:
```

| Token                    |  Weight          |  rate           | 
| -----------              | -----------      |  -----------    |   
| A (yield bearing)        |       0.3        | 1.01            | 
| B (non yield bearing)    |       0.5        | 1.00            |   
| C (bearing)              |       0.2        | 1.05            |  

> The rate product is obtained by multiplying the weighted rates together:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This was said before the table.

Author: Mhm. I don't see where this is being said as part of the yield fee calculation section. My intention is to show where in the code the rate providers are being queried.

> Rate product = (0.3 * 1.01) * (0.5 * 1) * (0.2 * 1.05) = 1.013

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`rateProduct` = (0.3 * 1.01) * (0.5 * 1) * (0.2 * 1.05) = 1.013
```

Lets maintain how its written in code.

As part of the calculation of the rateProduct, the rate providers of the pool tokens are queried for their rates [here](https://github.com/balancer/balancer-v2-monorepo/blob/cbce7d63479dafb4f4ea9ad8cb2dbdbb26edae50/pkg/pool-weighted/contracts/WeightedPoolProtocolFees.sol#L304). This occurs in the following code snippet:

```

> /**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /**
```

tab over to make inline with the rest of the natspec comment

     * @notice Returns the contribution to the total rate product from a token with the given weight and rate provider.
     */
    function _getRateFactor(uint256 normalizedWeight, IRateProvider provider) internal view returns (uint256) {
        return provider == IRateProvider(0) ? FixedPoint.ONE : provider.getRate().powDown(normalizedWeight);
    }
```

> There are several scenarios in which no yield fees are paid during a pool join or exit operation. Here are a couple of examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several scenarios in which no yield fees are paid during a pools join or exit operation. Below are a couple of examples:
```

> - Rate providers only update with a given frequency: If multiple joins or exits occur without any factors contributing to a newATHRateProduct, no yield fees are minted. This means that if the rate providers have not updated their rates within the given timeframe, the rateProduct remains unchanged and no yield fees are charged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rateProduct` remains unchanged: If multiple joins or exits occur without any factors contributing to a `newATHRateProduct`, no yield fees are minted.
```

> - Rate fluctuations of different tokens: In some cases, the rate of one token may increase while the rate of another token decreases. If, on a normalized basis, the rate increase of Token A is less than the rate decrease of Token B, the calculated `rateProduct` would not reach the ceiling of `ATHRateProduct`. As a result, no yield fees would be paid during the pool join or exit, as the rateProduct did not increase sufficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Insignificant `rateProduct` fluctuations between tokens: In some cases, the rate of one token may increase while the rate of another token decreases. If, on a normalized basis, the rate increase of Token A is less than the rate decrease of Token B, the calculated `rateProduct` would not reach the ceiling of `ATHRateProduct`. As a result, no yield fees would be paid during the pools join or exit.
```

#### [`ChainlinkRateProvider`](https://github.com/balancer/metastable-rate-providers/blob/master/contracts/ChainlinkRateProvider.sol)

If you're running on a network for which Chainlink doesn't have a registry and you think the risk of a deprecated price feed is low enough, then you can use the rateProvider that directly queries a given Chainlink oracle.

> ## Rate Providers as part of a pool's lifecycle

Reviewer: I think you should try and come up with a shorter main title. Maybe something like `Application of Rate Providers By Pool Type`. Not 100% sure. lmk if you have any other ideas.

Author: Agree.

> Different pool types utilise rate providers in varying contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different types of pools utilize rate providers in different contexts.
```

| PoolType                   | Yield Fee        |  Pricing Equations| 
| -----------                | -----------      |  -----------      |
| Composable Stable Pool     | ✅               | ✅                |
| Meta Stable (EOL)          | ✅               | ✅                |
| Weighted Pool              | ✅               | ❌                |
| Managed Pool               | ✅               | ❌                |
| Liquity Bootstrapping Pool | ❌               | ❌                |

One important aspect to determine a trade's outcome are the Token balances a pool contains. Before the reported balances by the Vault are being used in the Trade equations for StableMath two operations will be done to them:

- 1. Upscaling to Balancer's internal 18 decimals.
- 2. Applying the rate via multiplication.

These operations supply apparent balances to the StableMath equations effectively changing the value of the balances reported via the earlier call to `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`.

> ComposableStablePools & MetaStablePools have different implementations for the scaling operations but the outcome is the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composable Stable Pools and Meta Stable Pools have different implementations for the scaling operations but the outcome is the same.
```

Reviewer: Not 100% sure on this one, but I would try to keep naming consistent throughout the page.

Author: My intention here was that since they both use StableMath, the outcome must be the same. What do you mean with naming? The spelling of the pools?

### Implementation for Composable Stable Pool 

> How scaling is used can be seen in the below code snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaling Example:
```

```
function _scalingFactors() internal view virtual override returns (uint256[] memory) {
        // There is no need to check the arrays length since both are based on `_getTotalTokens`
        uint256 totalTokens = _getTotalTokens();
        uint256[] memory scalingFactors = new uint256[](totalTokens);

        for (uint256 i = 0; i < totalTokens; ++i) {
            scalingFactors[i] = _getScalingFactor(i).mulDown(_getTokenRate(i));
        }

        return scalingFactors;
    }
```

> ### Example for a Composable Stable Pool swap utilising rate Providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Composable Stable Pool Swap Example
```

| wstETH - 0x7f39c581f595b53c5cb19bd0b3f8da6c935e2ca0    | 6998331684674570187580                | 1123265399574462175  |  7860983836140600107855                   | 
| sfrxETH - 0xac3e018457b222d93114458476f3e3416abbe38f   | 7388958961745977404526                | 1038371994655823641  |  7672488055538194248508                   | 
| rETH - 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393      | 5950507951882438548950                | 1069881935087994199  |  6366340962316480428138                   | 

\*Bear in mind that the tokens used for demonstration in these examples all have 18 decimals and Balancer natively uses 18 decimals for internal accounting. If tokens have different decimals, the scaled balances scale with the tokens decimals as well.

After the token balances have been upscaled, they are fed into `_calcOutGivenIn` [here](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x72d756d0fcd663343ca1b2adcfc7e114e8598bc0be28386752f16222384a29b3?trace=0.4.2.2.19.11.0.3.0.5).
That is how `rateProvider` feeds a rate into the pricing equation for ComposableStablePools.

### Implementation in a MetaStablePool 

> How scaling is used can be seen in the below code snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaling Example:
```

```
function _scalingFactor(IERC20 token) internal view virtual override returns (uint256) {
        uint256 baseScalingFactor = super._scalingFactor(token);
        uint256 priceRate = _priceRate(token);
        // Given there is no generic direction for this rounding, it simply follows the same strategy as the BasePool.
        return baseScalingFactor.mulDown(priceRate);
    }
```

> ### Example for MetaStablePools (superseded by ComposableStablePool) swap utilising rate Providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Meta Stable Pool Swap Example
```

20040415915824227571764 for rETH and 21953505292747563228232 for WETH. 
  
| Token                                             | balances                              |  rate                |  scaled balance                           | 
| -----------                                       | -----------                           |  -----------         |  -----------                              | 
| rEth 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393   | 20040415915824227571764                | 1070121751154609309  |  21445684973708525874136                  | 
| WETH 0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2   | 21953505292747563228232                | 1000000000000000000  |  21953505292747563228232                  | 

The token balances used in the Trade Equations are then [upscaled](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21?trace=0.5.2.1.5.11) the scaled balance. Only after upscaling are the apparent balances supplied to
[`OnSwapGivenIn()`](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/tx/mainnet/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21?trace=0.5.2.1.5.13.2). 

> ### Rate Provider being used in a MetaStablePool swap

Reviewer: Is this section still being worked on? It seems like that section is above?

Author: They are similar in content but the difference is that they use different scaling implementations. I think it can be helpful for people to understand how balancer does scaling with rateProviders for these two pool types as they are heavily used. Not sure what you are referring to tbh.

> ## Rate Providers being used to collect yieldFees for WeightedPools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Yield Fees for WeightedPools
```

Rate providers play a crucial role in determining whether yield fees are charged during pool join or exit. The primary factor used for this determination is the comparison of the `_athRateProduct` private variable with a dynamically calculated `rateProduct` on every pool join or exit. Here's an example illustrating what the `rateProduct` represents:

The rateProduct is calculated as the weighted product of all current rates:

| Token                    |  Weight          |  rate           | 
| -----------              | -----------      |  -----------    |   
| A (yield bearing)        |       0.3        | 1.01            | 
| B (non yield bearing)    |       0.5        | 1.00            |   

> | C (bearing)              |       0.2        | 1.05            |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| C (yield bearing)              |       0.2        | 1.05            |  
```

The rate product is obtained by multiplying the weighted rates together:

Rate product = (0.3 * 1.01) * (0.5 * 1) * (0.2 * 1.05) = 1.013

As part of the calculation of the rateProduct, the `rateProvider` of the pool tokens are queried for their rates [here](https://github.com/balancer/balancer-v2-monorepo/blob/cbce7d63479dafb4f4ea9ad8cb2dbdbb26edae50/pkg/pool-weighted/contracts/WeightedPoolProtocolFees.sol#L304). This occurs in the following code snippet:

```
/**
     * @notice Returns the contribution to the total rate product from a token with the given weight and rate Provider.
     */
    function _getRateFactor(uint256 normalizedWeight, IRateProvider provider) internal view returns (uint256) {
        return provider == IRateProvider(0) ? FixedPoint.ONE : provider.getRate().powDown(normalizedWeight);
    }
```

There are several scenarios in which no yield fees are paid during a pool join or exit operation. Here are a couple of examples:

> - Rate Providers only update with a given frequency: If multiple joins or exits occur without any factors contributing to a newATHRateProduct, no yield fees are minted. This means that if the rate Providers have not updated their rates within the given timeframe, the rateProduct remains unchanged and no yield fees are charged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rateProduct' remain unchanged: If multiple joins or exits occur without any factors contributing to a `newATHRateProduct`, no yield fees are minted. 
```

Author: addressed this.

## Application of Rate Providers By Pool Type

Different types of pools utilize rate providers in different contexts.

| PoolType                   | Yield Fee        |  Pricing Equations| 
| -----------                | -----------      |  -----------      |
| Composable Stable Pool     | ✅               | ✅                |
| Meta Stable (EOL)          | ✅               | ✅                |
| Weighted Pool              | ✅               | ❌                |
| Managed Pool               | ✅               | ❌                |
| Liquity Bootstrapping Pool | ❌               | ❌                |

::: note
Stable Pools apply Stable Math as their pricing equations, whereas all other pools (except Linear Pools) use Weighted Math for pricing equations. The key difference between why rate Providers impact pricing equations for Stable Pools with rate Providers is that the pool balances (retrieved via `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`) are manipulated in two distinct manners before prices are calculated:

1. Scale token balances to an 18-decimal fixed point number.
2. Multiply the scaled balance by the rate.

> :::

Reviewer 2: What point is this trying to make? It's quite wordy; I understand the details, but don't understand the goal here.

Author: Readers should understand where & how RateProviders impact Trade equations.

Author: addressed here: https://github.com/mkflow27/docs/pull/1/commits/c528c5d2107a70d15125e05b42bc062d8d5defa2

|     Token                                              | balances                              |  rate                |  scaled balance                           | 
| -----------                                            | -----------                           |  -----------         |  -----------                              | 
| BPT - 0x5aee1e99fe86960377de9f88689616916d5dcabe       | 2596148429265848431954582359320590    | 100000000000000000   |  2596148429265848431954582359320590       | 
| wstETH - 0x7f39c581f595b53c5cb19bd0b3f8da6c935e2ca0    | 6998331684674570187580                | 1123265399574462175  |  7860983836140600107855                   | 
| sfrxETH - 0xac3e018457b222d93114458476f3e3416abbe38f   | 7388958961745977404526                | 1038371994655823641  |  7672488055538194248508                   | 
| rETH - 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393      | 5950507951882438548950                | 1069881935087994199  |  6366340962316480428138                   | 

The upscaled token balances are are fed into `_calcOutGivenIn`.
```
ComposableStablePool._calcOutGivenIn
    (
        amplificationParameter = 200000, 

>         balances = ["7860983836140600107855","7672488055538194248508","6366340962316480428138"], 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        balances = [7860983836140600107855,7672488055538194248508,6366340962316480428138], 
```

    uint256 baseScalingFactor = super._scalingFactor(token);
    uint256 priceRate = _priceRate(token);
    // Given there is no generic direction for this rounding, it simply follows the same strategy as the BasePool.
    return baseScalingFactor.mulDown(priceRate);
}
```

### Meta Stable Pool Swap Example

Looking at a swap of 50 ETH to 46.68 rETH the pool balances are upscaled.

  
| Token                                             | balances                              |  rate                |  scaled balance                           | 
| -----------                                       | -----------                           |  -----------         |  -----------                              | 
| rEth 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393   | 20040415915824227571764                | 1070121751154609309  |  21445684973708525874136                  | 
| WETH 0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2   | 21953505292747563228232                | 1000000000000000000  |  21953505292747563228232                  | 

The upscaled token balances are fed into `_calcOutGivenIn`

```
MetaStablePool._calcOutGivenIn
    (
        amplificationParameter = 50000, 

>         balances = ["21445684973708525874136","21953505292747563228232"], 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        balances = [21445684973708525874136,21953505292747563228232], 
```

There are several scenarios in which no yield fees are paid during a pools join or exit operation. Below are a couple of examples:

- `rateProduct` remain unchanged: If multiple joins or exits occur without any factors contributing to a `newATHRateProduct`, no yield fees are minted. 
- Insignificant `rateProduct` fluctuations between tokens: In some cases, the rate of one token may increase while the rate of another token decreases. If, on a normalized basis, the rate increase of Token A is less than the rate decrease of Token B, the calculated `rateProduct` would not reach the ceiling of `ATHRateProduct`. As a result, no yield fees would be paid during the pools join or exit.

Yield fees being minted indicated by positive return values of 
```
WeightedPool._getYieldProtocolFeesPoolPercentage
    (
        normalizedWeights = ["800000000000000000","200000000000000000"]
    )
=>
(1074881576209740, 978863663373687295)
```
More details on this specific transaction be found [here.](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/mkflow/project/tx/mainnet/0x9e1d45013f4b65f444bb9b2ef823c0d4fd0a53e2b2bad85ba85a8e26c0bed45d?trace=0.2.7.3.7.1.2.2)

> No yield fees being minted indicated by zoer return values of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No yield fees being minted indicated by zero return values of
```

#### [`ChainlinkRateProvider`](https://github.com/balancer/metastable-rate-providers/blob/master/contracts/ChainlinkRateProvider.sol)

If you're running on a network for which Chainlink doesn't have a registry and you think the risk of a deprecated price feed is low enough, then you can use the rateProvider that directly queries a given Chainlink oracle.

## Application of Rate Providers By Pool Type

Different types of pools utilize rate providers in different contexts.

| PoolType                   | Yield Fee        |  Pricing Equations| 
| -----------                | -----------      |  -----------      |
| Composable Stable Pool     | ✅               | ✅                |
| Meta Stable (EOL)          | ✅               | ✅                |
| Weighted Pool              | ✅               | ❌                |
| Managed Pool               | ✅               | ❌                |
| Liquity Bootstrapping Pool | ❌               | ❌                |

::: note

> Stable Pools apply Stable Math as their pricing equations whereas all other pools (except Linear Pools) use Weighted Math for pricing equations. The key difference between why rate Providers impact pricing equations for Stable Pools with rate Providers is that the pool balances (retrieved via `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`) are manipulated in two distinct manners before prices are calculated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stable Pools apply Stable Math as their pricing equations, whereas all other pools (except Linear Pools) use Weighted Math for pricing equations. The key difference between why rate Providers impact pricing equations for Stable Pools with rate Providers is that the pool balances (retrieved via `vault.getPoolTokens(poolId)`) are manipulated in two distinct manners before prices are calculated:
```

        return baseScalingFactor.mulDown(priceRate);
    }
```

### Meta Stable Pool Swap Example

Looking at a swap of 50 ETH to 46.68 rETH the pool balances are upscaled.

  
| Token                                             | balances                              |  rate                |  scaled balance                           | 
| -----------                                       | -----------                           |  -----------         |  -----------                              | 
| rEth 0xae78736cd615f374d3085123a210448e74fc6393   | 20040415915824227571764                | 1070121751154609309  |  21445684973708525874136                  | 
| WETH 0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2   | 21953505292747563228232                | 1000000000000000000  |  21953505292747563228232                  | 

The upscaled token balances are fed into `_calcOutGivenIn`

```
MetaStablePool._calcOutGivenIn
    (
        amplificationParameter = 50000, 
        balances = ["21445684973708525874136","21953505292747563228232"], 
        tokenIndexIn = 1, 
        tokenIndexOut = 0, 
        tokenAmountIn = 49980000000000000000
    )
=> (49954807369169689518)

```

> more details on this specific transaction can be found [here.](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details on this specific transaction can be found [here.](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x67f477517acf6e0c91ec7997e665ca25d2806da060af30272876742584f0aa21)
```

> ::: note scaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: note Scaling
```

`rateProduct` is calculated as the weighted product of all current rates:
###  Yield Fees for WeightedPools
| Token                    |  Weight          |  rate           | 
| -----------              | -----------      |  -----------    |   
| A (yield bearing)        |       0.3        | 1.01            | 
| B (non yield bearing)    |       0.5        | 1.00            |   
| C (yield bearing)              |       0.2        | 1.05            |  

`rateProduct` = $(0.3 * 1.01) * (0.5 * 1) * (0.2 * 1.05) = 1.013$

As part of the calculation of the `rateProduct`, the `rateProvider` of the pool tokens are queried for their rates.

```
    /**
     * @notice Returns the contribution to the total rate product from a token with the given weight and rate Provider.
     */
    function _getRateFactor(uint256 normalizedWeight, IRateProvider provider) internal view returns (uint256) {
        return provider == IRateProvider(0) ? FixedPoint.ONE : provider.getRate().powDown(normalizedWeight);
    }
```

> more details on the implementation can be found [here.](https://github.com/balancer/balancer-v2-monorepo/blob/cbce7d63479dafb4f4ea9ad8cb2dbdbb26edae50/pkg/pool-weighted/contracts/WeightedPoolProtocolFees.sol#L304)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details on the implementation can be found [here.](https://github.com/balancer/balancer-v2-monorepo/blob/cbce7d63479dafb4f4ea9ad8cb2dbdbb26edae50/pkg/pool-weighted/contracts/WeightedPoolProtocolFees.sol#L304)
```

- Insignificant `rateProduct` fluctuations between tokens: In some cases, the rate of one token may increase while the rate of another token decreases. If, on a normalized basis, the rate increase of Token A is less than the rate decrease of Token B, the calculated `rateProduct` would not reach the ceiling of `ATHRateProduct`. As a result, no yield fees would be paid during the pools join or exit.

Yield fees being minted indicated by positive return values of 
```
WeightedPool._getYieldProtocolFeesPoolPercentage
    (
        normalizedWeights = ["800000000000000000","200000000000000000"]
    )
=>
(1074881576209740, 978863663373687295)
```
More details on this specific transaction be found [here.](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/mkflow/project/tx/mainnet/0x9e1d45013f4b65f444bb9b2ef823c0d4fd0a53e2b2bad85ba85a8e26c0bed45d?trace=0.2.7.3.7.1.2.2)

No yield fees being minted indicated by zoer return values of
```
WeightedPool.getYieldProtocolFeesPoolPercentage
    (
        normalizedWeights = ["800000000000000000","200000000000000000"]
    )
=>
(0, 0)
```

> More

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Whereas in this [transaction](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/mkflow/project/tx/mainnet/0xe2d8d7f705d23c18e7d25e68bf01ac2544cc73806c8e4572135d9bc16790b4f5) the `ATHRateProduct` did not increase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whereas in this [transaction](https://dashboard.tenderly.co/mkflow/project/tx/mainnet/0xe2d8d7f705d23c18e7d25e68bf01ac2544cc73806c8e4572135d9bc16790b4f5), the `ATHRateProduct` did not increase
```
